the gnu/linux this is a simple building
with a plain white door what is behind
it is fascinating
if I could I'd live and breathe you
we don't allow adults in here it's just
a bunch of big kids we all have fun
interacting with the people having made
new friends really brings home a lot of
the enjoyment that I can see with the
trains take a close look it may seem
like a store display or maybe it's
reminiscent of a train set the family
put up in their basement but this is not
hobbyist setup this is not a basement it
is a big group of people in a big space
is the Chicagoland Lionel railroad Club
boys will be boys and these are some of
their toys
there are passenger cars and freight
cars in the mountains in airfields
working crossings in the trestle bridge
look below and you can even see the hobo
is cooking dinner on an open fire what's
truly unique about this layout as the
members call the tracks and all the
scenery but is that it sits in the space
the club owns and this display is being
re-engineered pun intended into a
permanent display many years of
searching we looked at easily a hundred
fifty different locations on all sides
of the city of Chicago and the suburbs
we realized where are where our
membership was so we aimed into one
specific direction that would be
slightly towards the southeast we've
started in Berwyn so we were looking
there we knew right away that the only
way we're going to have a large layout
is if we have the building the biggest
problem that clubs have is that they end
up in a rented space and they have a
really fantastic layout they spent 30
years building it up oh it's fantastic
and then the Park District says sorry
we're going to have a ping-pong
tournament here next year so you guys
are out
every every big club that you've seen or
heard about ends up with the same story
so we figured we're not gonna have that
problem if we own the building it's ours
so we decided we're gonna buy it
we had fundraisers we did this that
everything else that was possibly to
raise money for it and then we talked to
some friendly bankers we are as far as I
know in the Chicago area we are probably
the only ones who actually own our own
building which means we're here for the
long haul I know of many other clubs
that rent and I've seen them come and go
I've seen one club that was moved five
times in the last 12 years because
they've rent and there's no way of
having stability on it we're here we own
our building we will stay here and we
will just keep improving our our main
goal is to keep improving and that's the
one thing we can do because we don't
have to worry about where we're gonna be
next year we have three loops right now
that we are that we have it at our
disposal in the future we're going to
we're going from what we call our
traveling layout to a permanent layout
but with our traveling layout in the
three loops because we use digital
engines we can put something like ten
engines on one track each one but would
run independent this club though is
about much more than just how big or
sophisticated they can make the layout
it's the people the variety of skills
the backgrounds and interests model
railroading model trains has something
for everyone
as soon as you get in you're gonna find
a little niche that you prefer to do we
have people here who will do nothing
else but scenery we have people here who
will do nothing else but work with
electronics we have people who prefer to
do carpentry anything that you would
like to do you find the spot in this
hobby for it and then you will find
other like-minded people before you know
if you've got a whole group of friends
around you that all talk the same
language we have for the most part older
older you know anything over 20 years
older right because other than that
there
little kids having a lot of fun so we
have older little kids and younger
little kids there is no real line of
demarcation at any of it we have doctors
lawyers a little bit of everything I
don't think we can really save because
we've got the mechanics we've got the
engineers we've got architects in here
we've got electricians we have
everything there is no controlling
interest I've learned that you really do
want to depend on other people to help
you can't do it all alone certainly I
would never have been able to build a
layout this big I myself I myself so you
learn to work with people and you
realize that
it all works out really great we have
people that enjoy the old trains we have
people that enjoy the new trains for the
most part when a club is organized it
gets involved in something that limits
it you have these guys that are called
high railers they're the ones that take
Lionel trains and they make sure that
everything looks real and it's properly
run and all the scenery is absolutely
right on the button well those guys
don't mix with the regular tinplate or
that inflator is the guy that runs with
the old trains because that's how the
trains were made out of tin plates
pressed sheet metal we have a little bit
of everything and we accommodate
everybody we don't exclude and that's
where the big difference in our club
comes in now the club is always looking
for new members and one of the ways they
do that is by holding an open house such
as this one while there is a lot to see
it a train club open house there are
things visitors can do to